# Problem4

This is an extension of Problem2 in which we use durative action rather than instant ones.

The idea is to be able to also see what actions can be done in parallel and understand the time required to complete the plan.

## Options

There are three possible planners usable for this problem:

1. Partial Order Planning Forwards (POPF)
2. Optimising Preferences and Time-Dependent Costs (OPTIC)
3. Temporal Fast Downward (TFD)

## Pros and Cons

### POPF

- Better usage of actions in parallel
- Much slower to run

### OPTIC

- Same as POPF
  
### TFD

- Poor representation of parallel actions in the plan
- Much faster that its counterpart

## Usage

### TFD [Suggested]

To run the problem with TFD planner use the command:

```
tfd domain.pddl problem.pddl | awk '/^Plan length/ {flag=1} flag' > actions_tfd
```

Which will generate an `actions_tfd` file containing the full clean plan with:

- **Plan length**: Number of actions done by the plan.
- **Makespan**: The amount of time it takes the plan to complete.
- **Time**: The amount of time it took the planner to find the plan.
- **Plan**: the actual plan as a list of actions indicated with time of start, action and duration of action.
  
### POPF

To run the problem with POPF planner use the command:
```
popf domain.pddl problem.pddl | awk '/^; Cost:/ {flag=1} flag'  > actions
```

Which will generate an `actions` file containing the full clean plan with:

- **Cost**: The cost of the plan, in this case the amount of time required to complete it.
- **Time**: The amount of time it took the planner to find the plan.
- **Plan**: the actual plan as a list of actions indicated with time of start, action and duration of action.

### OPTIC

to run the problem with OPTIC planner use the command:
```
optic -N domain.pddl problem.pddl | awk '/^; Cost:/ {flag=1} flag' > actions_optic
```

Which will generate an `actions_optic` file containing the full clean plan with the same structure of the one generated by POPF.

## Notes and Suggestions

- Highly suggest editing the `problem.pddl` goal to having to deliver only two items as with that case it already takes around 4 to 5 minutes.

- Remove the pipeline `|` and `awk` parts in each command while maintaining `>` onward to store the full output of the planner, with extra informations, in the file rather than just the clean plan (eg. `tfd domain.pddl problem.pddl > actions_tfd`) 

- Change the `actions`, `actions_tfd` or `actions_optic` name in the commands accordingly to however you want the file to be saved as.